
#README.md
This repo was created for a Coursera course.

The script run_analysis.R was created to work with Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset Version 1.0 [1]. The script creates a tidy data set that is then used for analysis.

The original dataset is located at:
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

The script assumes you have the data available in your working directory and the script is run from the working directory.

A full description of the data set is available at the site where the data was obtained. It can be consulted to review how the data was obtained and see a full set of the data.
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 

This readme file is intended to explain the script, not the original data set.

A description of the variables, the data, and the work performed to clean up the data can be found in the CodeBook.md file.

run_analysis.R contains all the steps required to transform the data then performs a specified  analysis of the data. It relies on functions in 3 packages- dplyr, plyr, and reshape2. The packages are installed by the script if they are not already installed. 

Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset Version 1.0 contains a training set and a test set of data. Each set of data has a corresponding set of activity labels which are further described in the acitivty_labels file. A subject file is also provided to link the data to the subject, listed only as a number, the data was generated by.

The following list is the specific files used by this script and their description:

- 'features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.
- 'features.txt': List of all features.
- 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.
- 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.
- 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.
- 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.
- 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.
- 'train/subject_train.txt': Each row identifies the subject who performed the activity for each window sample. Its range is from 1 to 30. 
- 'test/subject_test.txt' : equivalent to 'train/subject_train.txt'

Please consult CodeBook.md for a specific description of run_anaylsis.R

[1] Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility implied or explicit can be addressed to the authors or their institutions for its use or misuse. Any commercial use is prohibited.

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012.
